Let's conclude this module by having a look at VueJS now.
Just as with create react app, there's an official template which already ships a progressive web app
out of the box and it's best of course to start with that if you want to build a single page application
which is a progressive web app with Vue.
Now here, you also find the steps you have to use
and of course a link to this can also be found in the last lecture of this module,
you can also search for VueJS PWA template.
So here are the steps you have to follow through,
first of all install the vue-cli and then create a new project with that PWA template.
So I'll use this step here because I already have the CLI installed and I still want to do this in
the folder I already have set up, so I will execute Vue init
pwa. and this should use the existing folder.
Now with that, what it will do is it will set this project up and then of course install this template
for me.
So yes, I want to do this in the current folder
and now it will download the template.
Now we can assign a project name, a project short name which is already what it will use in the manifest.json
file as it hints us,
so here I'll name it
pwa, then a short description,
my pwa with Vue maybe. The author,
that's me, then here
which type of compiler we want to use, I pick runtime only Vue router,
well I don't need it
so I will
disable this, don't need linting here,
no tests are needed for this.
Let's disable this all
and now we can just run npm install to install all the dependencies this template has
and as I've just said, it will give us a PWA out of the box in the end.
So let's wait for this to finish to then see what it gives us
out of the box and how we can adjust it, how we can fine tune it.
Actually we can have a look at what's included on this template page whilst it is installing, as you
can see it gives us a service worker which will precache our app shell and the static assets it created.
It will also cleverly pre-load imports we may need at a later point of time,
it will give us a manifest and icons and already the viewport set up. A good score on lighthouse we
saw earlier and a good development environment
too, of course also minifying everything and so on.
So it's a nice set up.
Now here it did finish and with that, let's have a look at what it gave us.
As you can see, we got an index.html file and in there,
we also got the Microsoft additions, also the Apple meta tag.
So this is a good set up because it already gives us that, we don't even have to add these,
that's already great.
We also got the theme color and an import to the manifest which looks very cryptic because this will
be resolved as soon as we build for production.
In the end, it hints us where we find the manifest though, in the static folder,
so there indeed we have the manifest.json file which we can now fine tune to our needs.
It comes with some icons by default and a name, short name and so on,
feel free to of course adjust this to your needs.
Now the service worker is something we don't find in our project here,
no matter in which folder you look here, there is no service worker to be found.
Well let's have a look at the build folder,
there you see service worker related files and there, you can also configure your service worker.
Here
you see that it has the code for registering a service worker
and if you dive into the webpack prod file here, you'll see it's also using SWPrecache, the
same plugin React used by default.
Now for that reason of course, you can also fine tune the set up here, change the name of the file,
of course you also need to change it in the file where you import it then here, change what should get cached
and so on
and of course possibly also replace it with workbox if you want to use that,
just make sure to carefully read the workbox documentation
if you plan to do so.
So this is the set up Vue uses,
let's see what it gives us by simply executing a script it gives us as well, the build script here.
So let's run npm run build to use the default build workflow it gives us out of the box and let's see which files
and folders and assets
it gives us. So the build succeeded and it now gave us a dist folder.
Now if we have a look at that,
we see a service worker file here created by the precache plugin
and we have the manifest file in the static folder, it'll get imported in the index.html file.
Now we can use the serve
server we installed in the React video with, just in case you missed it,
with npm install -g serve,
so that's a global server on my machine now and there we can use serve -s dist here to serve
this dist folder.
Now with that let's copy that URL and open it and let's see how this looks like, what was created
for us.
Well we see React because I loaded that before,
let's clear the storage because it's the same URL,
so the old service worker was taking over.
Now we see the Vue app
and now let's also go offline there.
If I do that and reload, it still works because I precached some assets as you can see if you inspect
the cache.
Now as I said you can customize a lot about that
and that would be far beyond the core scope since it's more about writing development workflows, webpack
and so on.
The key takeaway is with React, Angular and Vue, it's easy to turn the application into a progressive
web app if you don't have one already as it is the case with React and Vue, at least with this template
for Vue.
So it's easy to incorporate progressive web app-like features
and then it's always up to you to fine tune the configuration, fine tune the service worker code to make
sure you also use the logic you want to use in your service workers, add background synchronization and
so on.
Now in the last lecture of this module, you'll find some useful links regarding this SWPrecachePlugin,
how to configure that as well as other links for these three frameworks and progressive web apps.
So definitely consider building your next Vue, React or Angular app as a progressive web app and always
keep in mind, the progressive is an important part of that word
too. You don't have to go all in,
you can start by precaching some assets and gradually add dynamic caching,
caching strategies and more.